---
layout: post
title: "A Productive weekend - Saving now 3-4 times faster"
date: 2013-02-03 16:02:00
---

<p>This week we discussed saving times on the KPhotoAlbum IRC channel,
which made me give it a shot at rewriting the saving code from QDom to
QXmlStreamWritter. I had a hunch that it would give quite some nice
improvement in saving speed.</p>

<p>Now, if you have ever participated in one of my Qt training classes, you
will likely have heard me say something like <i>NEVER EVER trust your own
hunches on where time is spend in your applications, USE A
PROFILER!</i>. Rewriting the code resulted in a disappointing 10% time
reduction on saving, not the 50% or more I had hoped for. Sigh! Why do I
never listen to myself?!</p>

<p>OK, so when I had callgrind and kcachgrind in action anyway, I could
just as well look at what made it relatively slow at saving, and I found,
not surprisingly, that it spend quite a bit of time in places I wouldn't
have guessed in a million years. I got an impression 18% reduction simply
by caching whether the XML file should be in compressed or readable
format.</p>

<p>In total, depending on format used, and whether your KPhotoAlbum is
build in debug or release mode, I got a reduction of time spend when
saving between 62% and 73%, which means a speed up of 3-4.</p>

<p>Saving now takes less than 400ms on my database with 13800 images (of
which more than 95% are tagged). I guess it will be a while before I need
to revisit the speed of saving :-)</p>

<p class="author">— Jesper</p>
